and Hannah prayed my heart rejoices in
the Lord my horn is exalted in the Lord
I smile at my enemies because I rejoice
in your salvation
no one is holy like the Lord for there
is none besides you nor is there any
rock like our God talk no more so very
proudly let no arrogance come from your
mouth for the Lord is the God of
knowledge and by him actions are weighed
the bows of the mighty men are broken
and those who stumbled occurred it with
strength those who were full have hired
themselves out for bread and the hungry
have ceased to hunger even the barren
has born 7 and she who has many children
has become feeble the Lord kills and
makes alive he brings down to the grave
and brings up the Lord makes poor and
makes rich he brings low and lifts up he
raises the poor from the dust and lifts
the beggar from the ash heap to set them
among princes
and make them inherit the throne of
glory for The Pillars of the Earth are
the Lord's and he has set the world upon
them he will guard the feet of his
saints but the wicked shall be silent in
darkness for by strength no man shall
prevail the adversaries of the Lord
shall be broken in pieces from heaven he
will thunder against them the Lord will
judge the ends of the earth he will give
strength to his king and exalts the Horn
of his anointed then Elkanah went to his
house at Rhema but the child
ministered to the Lord before Eli the
priest now the sons of Eli were corrupt
they did not know the Lord and the
priests custom with the people was that
when any man offered a sacrifice the
priests servant would come with a
3-pronged flesh hook in his hand while
the meat was boiling then he would
thrusted into the pan or kettle or
caldron or pot and the priest would take
for himself all that the flesh hold
brought up so they did in Shiloh to all
the Israelites who came there also
before they burned the fat the priests
servant would come and say to the man
who sacrificed give meat for roasting to
the priest for he will not take boiled
meat from you but raw and if the man
said to him they should really burn the
fat first then you may take as much as
your heart desires he would then answer
him no but you must give it now and if
not I will take it by force
therefore the sin of the young men was
very great before the Lord for men
abhorred the offering of the Lord but
Samuel ministered before the Lord even
as a child wearing a linen ephod
moreover his mother used to make him a
little robe and bring it to him year by
year when she came up with her husband
to offer the yearly sacrifice and Eli
would bless Elkanah and his wife the
Lord give you descendants from this
woman for the loan that was given to the
Lord then they would go to their own
home and the Lord visited Hannah so that
she conceived and bought three sons and
two daughters meanwhile the trials
Samuel grew before the Lord now Eli was
very old and he heard everything his
sons did to all Israel and how they lay
with the women who assembled at the door
of the tabernacle of meeting why do you
do such things for I hear of your evil
dealings from all the peoples no my sons
where it is not a good report that I
hear you make the Lord's people
transgress if one man sins against
another God will judge him but if a man
sins against the Lord who will intercede
for him nevertheless they did not heed
the voice of their father because the
Lord desired to kill them
and the child Samuel grew in stature and
in favor both with the Lord and Men
then a man of God came to Eli and said
to him thus says the Lord did I not
clearly reveal myself to the house of
your father when they were in Egypt in
Pharaoh's house
did I not choose him out of all the
tribes of Israel to be my priest to
offer upon my altar to burn incense and
to wear an ephod before me and did I not
give to the house of your father all the
offerings of the children of Israel made
by fire why do you kick it my sacrifice
and my offering which I have commanded
in my dwelling place and honor your
son's more than me to make yourselves
fat with the best of all the offerings
of Israel my people therefore the Lord
God of Israel says I said indeed that
your house and the house of your father
would walk before me forever but now the
Lord says far be it from me for those
who honor me I will honor and those who
despise me shall be lightly esteemed
behold the days are coming that I will
cut off your arm and the arm of your
father's house so that there will not be
an old man in your house and you will
see an enemy in my jowl in place despite
all the good which God does for Israel
and there shall not be an old man in
your house forever but any of your men
whom I do not cut off from my altar
shall consume your eyes and grieve your
heart
and all the descendants of your house
shall die in the flower of their age
now this shall be assigned to you that
will come upon your two sons hophni and
Phineas in one day they shall die both
of them then I will raise up for myself
a faithful priest who shall do according
to what is in my heart and in my mind I
will build him a sure house and he shall
walk before my anointed for ever and it
shall come to pass that everyone who is
left in your house will come and bow
down to him for a piece of silver and a
morsel of bread and say please put me in
one of the priestly positions that I may
eat a piece of bread
you